The stage coach stopped at the door of the Academy in Abington, an
hour later than the expected time, and Howard and George Barrington
ran forward with eagerness, as school boys are wont to do, when they
are going from a retired part of the country into the city, at the
Christmas Holidays.

The stage passed rapidly along the fine turnpike road; and at dusk
the blowing of the horn announced their near approach to the great
city; soon the coachman’s whip was thrown on the top of the vehicle,
a loud ring at the door of their father’s mansion was answered by the
servant in waiting; the boys beheld the cheerful lighted hall, and were
soon locked in the arms of their parents and sisters, who ran out of
the parlour to receive them. The parlour too was lighted, not only
with lamps, but by a blazing hickory fire, for it was a cold, frosty
evening, toward the end of December. “What kept you so late?” said Emma
to her brother George, whose hand she still held. “I believe,” said
he, “we were not longer than usual in coming, but the stage did not
leave Abington for an hour after the appointed time; it was waiting
for passengers, and was very much crowded.” “I thought you would never
come,” said Emma.

Howard, who had been in earnest conversation with his mother, now
turned to George, and said, “Did you not feel sorry for poor John when
he found he could not get into the coach? I really pitied him, for
he was just as eager to go as we were; and I could not help thinking
what a disappointment it would be to his parents, who, no doubt, were
looking out as anxiously for him, as our parents were for us.” “O,
don’t think about it, Howard,” said George. “I dare say he’ll get down
to-morrow, and that will do as well.”

Before we proceed, we will give the reader a little insight into the
characters of these boys: Howard, the eldest, (who was named after the
great philanthropist of that name,) was twelve years old, slender and
delicately formed; his capacity was good, his disposition amiable and
obliging, and his school mates called him the finest fellow in the
world. He possessed, indeed, genuine sensibility; that sensibility
which feels the misfortunes of others, as well as its own sorrows.
This latter quality, though a lovely one, subjected him to a great
many trials; and one of the objects his judicious mother had in view
in sending him from home, was to counteract this tendency to morbid
feeling; she did not wish to crush the beautiful germs, which, if
properly directed, might at some future period, make him the benefactor
of mankind; but she wanted his strength of mind to keep pace with his
benevolent feelings, and she found, the only way to accomplish this,
was to throw him upon his oars, (to use a sea phrase,) and compel him
to think and act in a great measure for himself. The school and the
family provided for him, were every way unexceptionable. The teacher
was a clergyman, past the middle of life, of exemplary piety, one who
possessed great suavity of manners, and who had the happy faculty of
attaching his pupils to him in an extraordinary degree. He was made
acquainted with Howard’s peculiar temper, and suited himself to it;
treating him with great kindness, yet, with that firmness he so much
required.

George Washington, called after the beloved father of our country, was
almost the opposite of his brother; yet we will not take away from him
the commendation he deserves, for he too had his good qualities, and
at ten years old, was called by most folks, a smart and brave fellow.
He was short and chubby, with the promise of very good talents; bold
and daring, and of a quick, passionate temper, which continually wanted
a curb. His parents had early been aware of this, and by discreet
management, had so far kept him under complete control. When out of
their sight, however, he would sometimes _break out_, and _get into
scrapes_; his brother was then his refuge, for the respect shown to
him, even at this tender age, generally ensured peace, and the culprit
was forgiven.

Providence, who is ever watchful over the affairs of life, apparently
designed these lads to be blessings to each other. If George was
sometimes betrayed into rashness by the boldness of his nature, the
same confidence was exerted to raise his brother from his desponding
fits, as he laughingly termed the tenderness Howard discovered for the
human woes he felt, or saw around him.

After greetings all round had taken place, and the domestics also had
welcomed their young masters home, the tea-table was set out; and
George, who was generally on the look out for something good, saw
to his great pleasure, a nice plum cake placed in the middle of the
table. It was Mrs. Barrington’s desire to make her children happy. She
did not approve of giving them luxuries at all times, because health
is best promoted by plain food, but _at this time_, she thought she
might innocently allow them a few indulgencies, as her circumstances
in life were affluent, and she was not compelled to rob the poor, in
order to afford her children the gratification. They were soon seated
at the tea-table. Emma and the two little ones were permitted on this
evening to join the group, in honour of the arrival of their brothers.
They were two sweet cherub-looking children; the one three years old,
had a very fair complexion, and glossy flaxen hair, which hung in
curls on her little shoulders,――and such is the effect of habit, or
imitation, that the moment she was placed at table, she put her little
hands on it, closed her soft blue eyes, and was ready for the blessing
her father was to ask; never was there a sweeter picture of innocent
loveliness: the young folks had a great deal of merry chit-chat round
the table; after the tea things were removed, the two younger children
were sent to bed――Emma remained an hour longer.――Mamma then directed
the servant to place the table nearer the fire, and to add fresh fuel
to it――the green cloth was then thrown over the table, the newspapers
were placed on it for papa, and sewing materials, and interesting
books for the rest of the party. They were tolerably quiet, while papa
was reading, only now and then George would forget that he was not in
the woods at Abington, and Emma would whisper a few words in his ear,
which would make him laugh out. Soon, however, Dr. Barrington went
into his office, a very neat room, which adjoined the parlour. The
children tenderly loved their father, yet they were not sorry to see
him go away for a little while; the respect they likewise felt for
him, did not produce restraint; but yet they were generally rather
silent when he was present, because they could not bear to interrupt
him. They knew his mind was almost always engaged with some important
duty. He was a physician, and in truth, even the few hours he gave to
domestic enjoyment, were not without their cares: when surrounded by
an attractive circle, which his reputation had drawn around him, he
was oftentimes compelled to think deeply: he was responsible for the
lives of his fellow creatures, and was conscientious in the discharge
of every duty to them. After he withdrew, their little tongues were
all in motion. “Come, come, my children,” said Mrs. B., “it is my turn
to be speaker now;” a cry of hush! hush! went round, and soon they
were all mum. Mamma then addressed them, “I have been thinking, my
dear boys, and Emma too, what Christmas box I should get for you. Your
father and myself were talking over this weighty matter before you came
home, intending to surprise you; he, however, thought it best, as you
are all now of an age to have some judgment of your own, to let you
choose for yourselves.” “And me too, mamma?” said little Emma. “Yes, my
dear,” said her mother, “you will go with your brothers, and Howard,
if not George, can surely advise you.” “Dear, dear mamma,” vociferated
the trio, “how good you are!” “and will you give us the money in our own
hands,” cried Emma? At that moment she drew from her reticule a nice
purse, and presented each of them with a beautiful new bank note.
Their father had sent to the bank for them that day, on purpose to have
them fresh; but mamma said to little Emma, after she had sufficiently
admired her possession, “now, my dear, as you are a little girl, you
had better let Howard take care of your treasure, till the purchase
is about to be made.” She did as she was requested to do, and then a
debating took place. Many articles were named for the purchase, but
for some, the sum was too little, and others would not cost so much.
In this state they went to bed, to dream of every thing delightful. As
they were leaving the apartment, after having affectionately bade their
mother good night, she called to them, and said, “now remember, my dear
children, you have but one day more to decide upon your purchase before
Christmas, and remember too, you must think well, before you decide;
and after you have fixed upon the articles you intend to buy, you must
not change your mind. It must also be all concluded upon before you
go to the shops, so that you may not give unnecessary trouble, and
expose yourselves, as many little boys do, who cannot make up their
minds. I would be pleased too, if you would talk the matter over among
yourselves, and appeal neither to your father nor myself for advice.”
They promised to do all their mother advised, and retired.

They had sweet dreams, as may be supposed, and appeared at the
breakfast table the next morning, with fresh blooming complexions, and
countenances full of meaning. This was an eventful day to them. They
behaved very well considering all things; but George found it difficult
to keep the interesting subject out of sight; and Emma would every now
and then, put her head close to his, and whisper something in his ear.
Howard would cast a significant look across the table, and father and
mother could not but smile. In truth, these good parents were as happy
as any king or queen, nay, far happier; for monarchs seldom feel the
delights which spring from the social affections.

Dinner time now came round, the party were on _tip-toe_. As they all
took their seats, Mrs. Barrington looked at them with much earnestness.
She thought she discerned a little anxiety on Howard’s brow, and George
seemed restive. But this might arise from impatience to be out; it was
three o’clock, and they would have but two hours before sunset. She,
however, took no notice of this, but bidding the servant hasten the
dessert, she told them they might withdraw in a few minutes, without
waiting, as was their custom, till the cloth was removed,――away they
flew, were soon coated, and sallied forth.

The grand decision was made; they went to a number of shops――made
their purchases, and just as it began to grow dark, they rang at
the hall door, in high glee. Mrs. Barrington was seated on the sofa
in the drawing room, when the door opened, and Emma first made her
appearance, holding behind her a beautiful red morocco work box, which
she produced as soon as she came near her mother. “See, mamma,” said
she, “this was Howard’s choice; he thought it would be more useful
than any toy: and I think, mamma, I shall be able to keep it a great
while; see, it has thimble, scissors, needle case, and all in it.”
“Yes, it is very complete,” said her mamma, “and very well chosen,
for it is plain, and strongly made: now, if it only encourages you to
be industrious, I shall be rejoiced.” “O yes, mamma,” said Emma, “I
mean to begin to hem your cambrick handkerchiefs, this very evening,
and will furnish my pretty box with needles, pins, cotton balls, &c.”
Just at this moment in came Howard and George, and Mrs. B. could
scarce refrain from laughing; the mingled sensations at the same time
affected her, when the latter, with a military air, marched in, with
his small barrelled gun, saying, “now I can be a sportsman, and by next
Christmas, mother, you shall have as fine a brace of partridges as ever
graced a gentleman’s table, or if you like them better, wood-cocks, or
pheasants, or reed-birds; I dare say you will like them the best, they
are so delicate. Mother, you look grave,” said the sprightly boy; “why it
is not worth while, for I’m sure both General Washington and General
La Fayette, handled a gun before they were my age, or else they never
would have known how to frighten the British so; come, cheer up mother,
may be I may be a General some of these days.”

The gun was only moderately commended; it was very good of its kind,
his father said, (who by this time had come into the parlour to witness
the scene,) and not a dear purchase; but Mrs. Barrington did not like
to see it in George’s hand; she would not have felt so much fear had it
belonged to Howard. However, the purchase was now made; she had told
them they must not change their minds after once deciding; so nothing
more could be done at present; but she intended making an appeal to
his feelings when he returned into the country, and she hoped this
would be regarded.

“Why don’t you take out your pretty books,” said Emma to Howard, as he
stood looking at the gun, with very much the same train of thought as
that which agitated his mother. With that he took from his coat pocket
two very neat volumes, and handed them to his mother; one was a very
good edition of Walker’s Dictionary, the other a neat pocket edition
of The New Testament. He coloured as she opened this, and with his
usual timidity, turned away. He had stepped into his father’s office,
and that was the reason why he and George did not enter the parlour
with Emma, that he might write in the title page of his Testament, “_A
Christmas gift from my dear mother_, may her son derive profit from
the perusal of it, that he may become a blessing to her.” When she saw
these lines, tears started to her eyes; and an involuntary ejaculation
of, “Heaven bless you, my son,” escaped from her lips. “You have done
well,” she replied. “O that is not all yet,” exclaimed little Emma. “No,”
said George, “for the gentleman at the Sunday School Bookstore seemed
so pleased with him, that he allowed him to take the books at such
a low price, that he had almost a dollar left.” Saying this, he ran
behind Howard, and drew from his coat pocket, a striped woollen jacket.
Here the party laughed aloud. Dr. Barrington, who seemed to enjoy the
frolic, said, “why here is a sailor’s jacket, but where are the trowsers
and hat? are you going, my dear boy, to turn sailor upon our hands?”

Howard’s feelings were by this time, a little touched; and George took
upon himself, to clear up the mystery of the yellow jacket. “Howard,”
he said, “had from the first, wanted to get something for poor Tom
Sanders, who lives near our school: and sometimes he thought he would
lay out all his money for him, he looked so ragged and distressed the
day before we came away. But he had wished for a great while, to have a
small Testament of his own, beside his school Testament, that he could
carry in his pocket, and he thought if he had it, he could sometimes
between school hours run through the woods to the house of Tom’s father
and mother, who were poor wretched creatures, and by this means be
of some service to them and Tom too; and the Dictionary he thought
he could scarcely do without, but he had given this up, intending to
lay out what he had left after buying the Testament, for poor Tom:
but the gentleman let him have the Dictionary so cheap, that he found
he could get the jacket too. So we stopped at a shop and got it.” Dr.
B.’s eyes beamed with pleasure, and Mrs. B. felt as if she could have
taken Howard to her arms. “My son, you have done well,” exclaimed the
father, “and Tom shall have a pair of trowsers to suit the jacket.” “O,
shall he,” says he, “then, dear father, I’ll run now and get them.”
“No, my dear, you are fatigued. It is beside, snowing fast. Harry
shall go early in the morning, before you are up; very little choice
is required.” “He may take the jacket with him, father, may he not,”
said Howard; “for Tom will be as well pleased to have them alike, as I
should be. And father, do you think we could get the stage driver to
take them to-morrow, so that he might put them on _on Christmas day_?”
“Harry shall go with a request from your mother, and I have no doubt he
will take them.”

Mrs. Barrington at the same time gave them in charge to the man
servant, and added a nice fat little turkey, for the poor family. When
Howard saw this, he felt that his mother was good indeed, to gratify
him so highly: the next day, they were all despatched in time to reach
the house of Tom’s father, at a very early hour. So that Tom had the
comfort of his new clothes on _Christmas day_, and the family had as
good a dinner as their richer neighbours. When the stage stopped at the
door of the cabin, and the driver handed out the bundle, Tom’s surprise
was so great at first that he could not speak; but he ran in to his
mother, exclaiming, “only look mammy, what master Howard has sent us.
Here’s a jacket and trowsers for me, and here’s a turkey for you and
father!”

But we must return to the parlour in town. Christmas eve now came,
and with it a small company, consisting of the children of persons,
with whom Dr. and Mrs. B. were particularly acquainted, and beside
them their cousins. Mrs. B. loved to encourage social feelings in her
children, and during holiday times would treat them to some of these
parties. It was her desire that all belonging to her family should
be united in love, and an affectionate regard for each other; this
she knew could not be the case unless they were brought frequently
together: and as her boys were absent the greater part of the year,
she embraced the opportunity of school vacations, to give them, not
a dance, not a supper table covered with all the luxuries of the
season――she could not bear to see children gormandize, as eating
immoderately is called; her object was to bring them together, and make
them happy in a rational way.

She interested herself on such occasions, in composing for them
puzzles, which had infolded in them, some moral or religious precept:
she treated them to apples, nuts, and sugar plums, and nice cakes; but
then, these were the least part of the entertainment. She never left
them to themselves to romp and disturb the neighbours with their noise;
but would remain with them, to moderate the buoyancy of their spirits,
and direct them in their innocent sports. She would once or twice
during the evening, gather them around the table, and play teacher,
while they were her scholars. This would lead to many useful questions
and answers, and it must have been a very stupid child, who would go
away without some instruction. Nine o’clock was the hour she fixed,
for the young people to separate, and they seldom infringed upon these
limits. Mrs. B. was so much respected and beloved by all young folks,
that whatever she said was a law to them.

Christmas day was bright and clear; the children were in fine spirits,
and their parents happy in seeing them so.

In the evening, when all was still, when the table was drawn close
beside a good fire, when the curtains were closed, and Mrs. B. was
seated in the corner of the sofa which she usually occupied, with her
four children around her, the following dialogue commenced.

“I believe all my children, except little Mary, know why this is called
_Christmas day_.” “And I know too, mamma,” said a little girl, of six
years old: “do you dear,” said her mother, “then you shall tell me
why?” “I have heard you tell my brothers and Emma that Christ was
supposed to be born on that day.” “That is right, and you are a good
girl, for noticing, and remembering my instructions. Emma, can you
tell me where he was born?” “In the town of Bethlehem, in the country
of Judea.” “Can you tell me any of the circumstances which attended
his birth, George?” “He was born in a stable, because there was no
room for him in the inn: and he was wrapt in swaddling clothes, and
laid in a manger.” “When we think,” said Mrs. Barrington, “that the
Lord of heaven and earth was born in a stable, should it not make
us thankful, that he has provided more comfortable accommodations
for us? It should also teach us humility, when we consider, that we
are in comparison but worms of the dust; and that it is his goodness
which supplies us with every thing needful to shelter and comfort us.”
“Mamma,” said Emma, “what do you mean by humility?” “That we should
not pride ourselves on what we possess, because we know that it is all
given to us by God, or rather lent to us, as long as he chooses we
should have it. For the Scriptures, which are the word of truth, say,
that ‘the earth is the Lord’s, and the fulness thereof.’ To be humble
is to be meek, not thinking ourselves better than others. You know Mr.
Eastburne; I call him an humble man, he is lowly minded, and meek, and
is constantly going about following the example of his Saviour, doing
good to every one. Yet he never talks about himself, or what he has
done; and if you would meet him without knowing who he was, you would,
from his appearance, think he had no pretensions to the character he
has obtained; he is so unostentatious, and so _humble_, that to learn
something of him, you would have to go to the house of the sick person
he has been visiting, or the poor family for whom he is interesting
himself, not only occasionally, but almost every day of his life.”

“How delightful it must be to have such a character, to be so good,
and so humble, Mamma,” said Howard. “Yes, my child, and all may be
so if they endeavour to keep the commandments of God, and ask his
blessing on the endeavour. Howard, it is now your turn to answer.
Can you tell me the object of our Saviour’s birth?” “He came to save
all mankind from their sins, all that would repent, and believe.”
“Were the parents of Jesus living at Bethlehem, at the time of his
birth?” “No, mamma, they were living at Nazareth, a town in Galilee,
but Augustus the Roman Emperor, made a decree, that all the world
should be taxed, and that every one must go to his own city for this
purpose. Now Joseph and Mary, the parents of Jesus, the Scriptures
say, belonged to the lineage of David, and Bethlehem was the city
of David, and they went there to be taxed, just before our Saviour’s
birth.” “Do you understand, my dear Howard, what is meant by the word
_lineage_, and what was understood by their being taxed at this time?”
“Not perfectly, will you explain it to me, mamma?” “The lineage, or
_line of David_, which is the common expression, as applied to Joseph
and Mary, mean that they belonged to his family. Many hundred years
before Christ was born, the Prophet Isaiah, a man who was inspired by
God, predicted in the Scriptures of the Old Testament, that Christ
would be born of one of the descendants of this family, that is of the
_line_ or family of David, and that he would be born in Bethlehem, the
city to which David’s family belonged, and here it was they came to be
taxed, although they had been living at Nazareth, a distance of sixty
or seventy miles from Bethlehem. Augustus had issued a decree, or law,
that an account should be taken of the number, and situations, of all
the subjects, or persons, in his vast empire, which from ostentation
he called _all the world_, because it contained the best, and most
civilized, and cultivated countries then known, this was the second
decree he had sent out, and so many persons had they to number, and
register or put down in a book, that they were three years before they
came to Bethlehem. At this time, only their names were taken; they
were not required to pay any thing till twelve years after: when they
did pay, it was for the support of the kingdom, to enrich it, and
enable its monarchs to live in splendour. Taxing is lawful, when the
money, or other things required, is not so much as to bear heavily
on the poor, who are not able to bear it. Our Saviour sanctions it,
when he says, ‘render unto Cæsar the things which are Cæsar’s.’ But
it has been carried so far, under despotic governments, and even in
countries, which at this day we have constant intercourse with, that it
is melancholy even to think of the distress it has occasioned the poor;
who at some seasons, have scarce been able to get bread enough to keep
them from starving.” “Thank you, mamma, I shall endeavour to remember
what you have told me.”

“George, can you tell me how the birth of our Saviour became
known?”――“Did not the shepherds tell it to all they met, mamma.”

“Yes, my dear, but how did they know it?” “Angels,” said Howard, “told
it to them:――they were watching their flocks, at night, to keep them
from the wolves.” “Would you not think it hard to be out on a winter’s
night, Howard?” “I should not have suffered so much there, as here;
the climate is so much warmer.” “But, I think,” said Mrs. B. “you said
the shepherds were watching their flocks?”――“Yes, mamma, and while
they were watching, an angel appeared to them: they were frightened at
first, but the angel told them not to be afraid.” “Cannot you repeat
the passage of Scripture?” “Yes, mamma, it is in the 2nd chapter of St.
Luke, and the 10th and 11th verses:――‘Fear not, for behold, I bring you
good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people: for unto you
is born, this day, in the city of David, a Saviour, which is Christ the
Lord.’” “Do you recollect what took place after this?” “The shepherds
exceedingly rejoiced, and went to Bethlehem where they found the Babe,
with his father and mother; precisely in the situation which had been
foretold; the shepherds then told the great news to all they knew.”
“Do you recollect, Howard, what is said of Simeon, a devout man, who
is spoken of, in the 2nd chapter of Luke, which records the nativity,
or birth of our Saviour?” “When the parents of Jesus brought him up to
Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, and offer a sacrifice for him,
which the law required, Simeon was dwelling at Jerusalem,――but, mamma,
I would rather hear you relate this.”

“You were right, so far, my dear: Simeon was a believer in Christ when
he was yet unborn;――he had studied the prophets of the old Testament,
and as the Scripture says, ‘he was waiting for _the consolation of
Israel_,’ that meant, to _see Christ_; for it had been revealed to him
that he should not see death, until he had seen the Lord’s Christ.

“When the young child was brought into the temple, Simeon, it is said,
was led by the Spirit to go there. George, do you repeat what the good
old man said, when his eyes beheld the Babe of Bethlehem, as our infant
Saviour was called.”

“I will try, mamma: he took him up in his arms, and blessed God,
saying, ‘Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according
to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation.’” “The Scriptures
have said that when Jesus was taken into the temple, the law required
that a sacrifice or offering should be made for him,――what was this
offering?” “A pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons.” “Yes, my
dear, the Jewish law made it necessary to bring an offering for every
male child. The more wealthy among them, gave a lamb of the first year,
and it shows how poor the parents of Jesus were, that they were able to
offer only a pair of turtle doves, or two young pigeons. When you are a
little older, my dear children, you will be better able to comprehend
the full meaning: of a sacrifice or offering, and the connexion they
had with the great sacrifice of himself, which our blessed Saviour made
for sinful creatures such as we are.

“What do you know, Howard, of the wise men who came from the east in
search of the Babe of Bethlehem?” “They came to Jerusalem first.” “Did
they remain there?” “No:――they told Herod, the king of Judea, that
Christ was born, for they had seen his star in the east.” “Do you know
what they meant by that?” “Do you tell us, mamma.” “It was at that
time believed throughout all the _East_, that some very extraordinary
person was to arise in Judea. The belief was founded on their having
some knowledge of the writings of the ancient prophets; and from the
Jews themselves, who were scattered over all the eastern countries.
Many persons suppose these _wise men_ lived in Persia, a country a
great deal further to the east than Jerusalem. About the time they
expected this great personage to appear, they saw a very shining, or
luminous appearance in the sky, which induced them to take this very
long journey. They thought by going to Jerusalem first, they should
certainly hear every thing which had occurred.” “But, mamma,” said
George, “I thought Herod did not know that Jesus was born.” “You are
right:――he was kept in ignorance of it, because God knew that he was a
wicked king, and would destroy the young child, in order to keep him
from reigning as a temporal king, as they supposed he would do, and
by this means overturn the Roman empire: the wise men were warned of
this, and seeing the same light or star, which they saw in their own
country, they followed it, till it stood just over the house where
the young child lay; for, by this time, his parents had found better
accommodations for him, than the poor stable in which he was born.
The scriptural relation is so beautiful, I will turn to it, and read
it to you, or, George, you may find the place in the 2nd chapter of
the gospel of Matthew. ‘When they saw the star, they rejoiced with
exceeding great joy. And when they were come into the house, they saw
the young child, and Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshipped
him; and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto
him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.’” “Was not Herod very
angry when he found the wise men did not return through Jerusalem, as
he expected they would?” “Yes, he was indeed: and, in consequence of
this, and that he might certainly destroy the infant Saviour, he caused
all the young children, of two years of age, and all under this age,
to be destroyed. But God did not allow him to succeed; for he sent the
parents of Jesus, with the young child, into another country, out of
Herod’s reach; so that he escaped, when many other poor children were
cut off. A beautiful account is given of this blessed child, in the 2nd
chapter of Luke, and the 2nd chapter of Matthew.

“His parents were in the habit of going up to Jerusalem once a year,
to the feast of the passover, an ordinance which I will explain to
you when you are older. It was customary for children to go with their
parents to this feast; and Jesus went with Joseph, and Mary his mother,
for he was, at that time, twelve years old. A very interesting incident
occurred, when his father and mother left the temple. But I wish each
of you to read one of the chapters I have mentioned. I have been
endeavouring to explain them to you, and I hope you will now understand
them.”

After they had read these scriptures, the children all joined in a
hymn, which their mother had composed for the day, and then retired
with her blessing.

    The joyful hour again returns,
      Let mortals prostrate fall;
    For lo! this day the angel bands
      Have crown’d thee Lord of all.

    From morning light, till evening shade,
      Thy glorious name we’ll sing;
    And nations shall proclaim the birth
      Of our exalted king.

    Let meek devotion’s sacred power
      Shed round her sweet perfume;
    While in thy consecrated courts
      We hail the blessing come.

    Then let our hearts be tuned to praise;
      Let purest incense rise
    From altars builded by thine hands,
      Our hearts the sacrifice.

    Loud hallelujahs let us raise;
      While at thy feet we fall:
    This day, behold! the angel band
      Have crown’d thee Lord of all.

Every day of the following week was passed among their relatives, till
the last day of the old year arrived. The boys had then but one day to
remain at home; and on this day the rain poured down in torrents. To
a reflecting mind, there is something in this period, which fills the
heart with a tender sorrow; the youthful party, however, were as yet
strangers to any great concern either for the past or future. Howard
alone began to feel; his mind was unusually matured, for one of his
age; and his character resembled his mother’s in many respects; an
extreme delicacy of sentiment marked all his thoughts――and an intuitive
sense of pain his actions: he never witnessed the dejection of another,
but he was sure to imbibe a portion of their grief. The indigent widows
who were his mother’s pensioners, had always a ready friend in him; and
from quite a little child, he never beheld a poor ragged boy or girl,
that he did not wish to give them some of his little clothes:――and one
day, seeing a poor beggar come into the hall, he ran before any one
was aware of it, and took from the side-board, a loaf of bread, and
carrying it in his little apron, threw it into the beggar’s lap. This
disposition continued, and now in his twelfth year, he is constantly
doing little acts of kindness to all within his reach. Is it to be
wondered at, that such a boy, ensures to himself the good will of all
who know him?

At length _New Year’s_ day came: this was passed at home, with uncles,
and aunts, and cousins, a goodly number. After the day was over, and
the guests had all returned to their homes, Howard and George lingered
round the fire, and their mother took the opportunity to give them
directions for their conduct during the _New Year_, upon which they
had entered. It was such advice, as every pious, and judicious parent,
should give to her sons, when on the eve of parting from them. She
bade them call to mind the past year, and think how often they had
offended against God; how many times they had broken his commandments;
how often they had acted contrary to the advice of their parents, and
teachers, by breaking the Sabbath, and by other acts of folly; which,
however trivial _in their eyes_, would not be overlooked by God, “who
is the searcher of the thoughts and intents of the heart.”

In this manner the hours wore away, and bed time arrived; the trunks
were already packed to be ready for the morning stage, which was to
convey the boys back to the school, twelve miles distant from town:
next morning, a loud rap at the door of their sleeping apartment,
aroused Howard and George, from most delicious slumbers; and the bright
sun darting his beams into the windows, admonished them to arise.

Breakfast being over, and the trunks in readiness in the hall, Harry
was summoned: after loitering, and holding mamma by the hand as long as
she would permit them, the boys gave her a hasty kiss, and ran out of
the parlour into Dr. Barrington’s office――and embracing him, were off.
Harry followed with the trunks, and they were shortly seated in the
very same _stage-coach_, which, the week before, had brought them to
town. Howard’s eyes were suffused with tears, and George looked grave.
They however began to think of all the pleasures they had enjoyed.
George pleased himself with the thought of how much he would have to
tell the boys at school; and Howard thought, if the next day should
be clear, he would walk over to old Squire Hobson’s farm, and see his
poor tenant, William Jones, who was in a deep decline. He had his
pocket full of medicines for him, that the Doctor had recommended, but
which he was too poor to purchase. These his father had allowed him to
take from his own stock that he always kept for the indigent. Howard
had beside, a large roll of flannel in his trunk, which his mamma had
placed there for William Jones’s two youngest children; and Howard
also thought to himself, how sweet it will be to carry my nice _New
Testament_ to the farmer’s, and read to poor William.

The stage now stopped at the door of the village pastor’s house;
and the next morning the boys entered upon their studies, in the
school-room adjoining: nor were they unmindful of that God to whom
their mother had directed their thoughts, _as the source of all their
blessings for time and eternity_.


                               THE END.
